	Mapped Mixed Layer Depth

ANZLIC:  nil

Abstract: 
Mixed layer depth was calculated from the oceanographic temperature and
salinity cast data used to generate CARS2000. It was defined to be the 
minimum (shallower) depth of depths zt and zs, where zt and zs are the 
shallowest depths such that   abs(T(zt)-T(10m)) >= .4C  and  
abs(S(zs)-S(10m)) >= 0.03 PSU. 
These values were then mapped onto a regular .5 degree grid using a loess 
filter, as used in CARS2000, simultaneously fitting quadratic spatial 
functions and annual harmonics. These fields were then linearly interpolated
to the required 1/10th degree spatial resolution. 

The provide "annual amplitude" is simply the magnitude of the fitted annual 
sinusoid.

Models:  nil

Scientific or technical limitations:




Data Currency:  Beginning  1900
		Ending     2000


Dataset status:
  Progress:  complete
  Update:   occasional?


Data source & Quality:

  Data lineage:   Derived from CARS2000 (see it's metadata)

  Cell size:   .025 degree

  Projection:  nil

  Logical consistency:  points generated by locally weighted filtering of
    measurements over a large domain, so there is a high degree of 
    coherence and consistency between adjacent gridded values.  

  Positional accuracy:  grid spacing is much finer than the lengthscales
    of mapping/interpolation, so there is no issue with positional accuracy.

  Parameter accuracy:  mixed layer depth is an ill-defined and inaccurately
    measured quantity, but which has high variablilty over a broad range of
    temporal and spatial scales. It has been approximately estimated from
    temperature and salinity data which is too sparse in space and time to
    allow accurate mapping of the spatial and temporal patterns of the 
    property. The cast data is also often too sparse in the vertical 
    dimension to even allow individual measurement to be accurate. It is 
    not possible to quantify the accuracy of the mapped fields, and they
    should be used as a broad guide only. Fine scale structure within the
    fields should be regarded with suspicion. 
 

  Completeness:  complete


Additional metadata:
  CARS2000


  
